You actually already modified the theme of
an app in the CourtCounter app in practice set two.
You modify the styles.xml file to have this AppTheme.
However, we didn't get into any specifics,
so let's do that now.
So, what is this style versus a theme?
Well, they're both defined as resources in the app in the same way.
You can add them to the styles.xml file.
However, the difference is that a style is applied to a single view,
whereas a theme is applied to an activity or application.
Meaning that it's applied to all the views in that activity or application.
If you want a TextView to show up in italics with a blue font color,
you could define a style for that.
But if you want all of that text using
your activity to use that blue font color with italics,
then you could define a theme.
Themes are also used to apply style properties to the window of the app,
so you can change the color for things like the app bar or the status bar,
which is exactly how you use the theme in the CourtCounter app.
The following are three examples of themes in action.
Notice how the colors used the app bar in the status bar are
also reflected in things like the headers and also the button text.
This is an effective use of color to convey the brand of the Google Play Music app.
Similarly, the Google Movies app uses read as a branding color.
It's used in the app bar,
status bar in this large image here and the buttons.
In the Google Play Games app,
you can see how specifying different shades of green for the theme of the app,
these too are cohesive experience.
To make development of an app easier,
there are few standard system themes that come with Android.
Each of these system themes follows the material design principles.
There's Material Dark which has a dark content area and a dark action bar.
There's Material Light which has a light content area and a light action bar.
Then, there's the Material Light with dark action bar theme,
which has a light content area or the dark action bar as the name entails.
When picking a theme,
you should pick a system theme that is closest to what you want in your final design.
You will make this the parent of the custom theme you define in the styles.xml file.
That way, you'll inherit all the styling from the parent theme,
and then you can add additional styling of your own on top of it.
This is a helpful article on how to use the Material Theme.
It tells you all the things you get for free by using this theme.
It also talks about the Material Theme, the Material Light,
and the Material Light with dark action bar themes.
Here's some example of XML that you can put into your styles file.
This style is inheriting from the parent Theme.Material.
So, it has a dark content area with a dark action bar.
We want everything that the Material Theme provides for us,
but we do want to change three of the theme colors.
So we've listed them here in the properties of this style.
If you're not sure which properties you want to change,
you can look at this helpful diagram here.
If you change color primary dark,
that's going to change the status bar and so on.
These Material Themes were introduced in Android Lollipop platform version,
but most developers want their apps to work on versions of Android older than Lollipop.
In order for your app to run on older versions of Android,
you should use the Support Library.
By using the Support Library,
you can apply one of these themes.
Themes.AppCompat.Light is the same as the Material Light theme,
it's just that this one works on older versions of Android.
And by the way, AppCompat stands for app compatibility.
Defining a theme using the AppCompat version is slightly different.
So, pay attention to this syntax here.
This example is a good one to follow.
Let's go and change the theme for our app.
We'll start by picking sensible colors for the app and the status bar.
I opened the material design spec on color.
You may remember this from lesson one of our course.
The spec recommends that we use a 500 color for the primary color of
the app and a 700 color for the status bar within the same color group.
Scrolling through this list,
I'm randomly going to choose the teal color.
So, I'm going to use the 500 color for the primary color of the app and then the
700 color for the primary color dark of the app.
By the way, another helpful tool for picking colors
for your app is this material palette tool.
If I click on this color and this color,
then it shows a preview of what the app would look like.
And down here is a list of all the colors in the color palette.
Here's the hex color for the primary color,
for the dark primary color,
the accent color, and so on.
Once you've picked your colors,
you can go ahead and define a theme as a style resource in the styles.xml file.
We ask that you include these three properties.
Within Android Studio, open the styles.xml file.
We will define our theme here.
This is same file that we modified in the last quiz where we added the header text style.
By default, you should see that the AppTheme is already defined.
The parent is Theme.AppCompat.Light.DarkActionBar.
So this has a light content area with a dark action bar.
And we're using AppCompat,
meaning that this will work on older versions of Android.
Any customization we do to our theme here is going
to override the default that were provided by the system theme.
This is what the XML looks like for a theme after you specify the primary color,
the primary dark color,
and the accent color.
The value for each of these is the hex color here.
This color will show up in app bar.
This color will show up in the status bar and contextual app bars.
And the accent color will show up in UI controls like checkboxes and text fields.
Once we've made this style resource,
we want to apply it as a theme.
Lucky for you, AppTheme is already applied as a theme by default.
So you don't need to change anything in your code.
Let's look at where the theme is applied
in case you want to make more themes in the future.
You'll need to open up the AndroidManifest.xml file.
It's located within the manifest folder of your app.
This XML file provides important information about your app to the system.
For example, it specifies the package name and the app name,
and it also lists all the components in your app,
such as all the activities.
The line that we're interested in now is this line
that specifies the theme of the application.
The value of the theme is @style/AppTheme.
So it's referring to the style resource in the styles.xml file called AppTheme.
By specifying this theme for the application,
all the activities are going to use this theme.
If we only want to apply this theme to the main activity,
then we can copy this line and paste it here for this activity XML tag.
Since our app only contains one activity now,
there isn't a whole lot of difference between setting
the theme on application or setting the theme on the activity.
But for other more complicated apps that contain multiple activities,
then that distinction is important.
Complete these tasks in your version of the Just Java app.
Feel free to choose your own colors for the theme.
These are just the colors that we picked for our version of the app.
When you're done, check these boxes and continue.